# Installation

Clone this repository first and install the dependencies via composer.

```shell
composer install
```

Once all the dependencies are installed, make a copy of file `.env.example` and name it as `.env`. Configurations then
can be set up via environment variables in the `.env` file.

### Database configurations

An empty database should be created in MySQL or MariaDB. Then corresponding database information should be set to the
configurations in the `.env` file.

### Image server configurations

IAW server requires [IAW Image Server](https://github.com/Systemik-Solutions/iaw-image-server) to provide IIIF image
support. Once the IAW Image Server is running, set `IMAGE_SERVER_URL` in the `.env` file to the base URL of the IAW
Image Server.

The IAW image server uses API tokens for authentications. Therefore, a user and an API token should be created in the
IAW Image Server before setting up `IMAGE_SERVER_API_TOKEN` in the `.env` file.

### Authentication configurations

IAW server uses [Laravel Sanctum](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/sanctum) to provide authentication. The following
configurations should be set up in the `.env` file.

- `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS`: The domain of the IAW application. e.g. `iaw.example.com`.
- `SESSION_DOMAIN`: The root domain of the IAW application. e.g. `.example.com`.

> [!NOTE]
> The IAW server and application must be configured under the same root domain. For example, the domain name of the 
> server is `iaw-server.example.com` and the domain name of the application is `iaw-app.example.com`. However, IAW
> app running in the built-in dev server does not require this as it uses proxy to redirect requests to the server.

### Persistent Identifier (PID) configurations

IAW uses [w3id](https://w3id.org/) to provide persistent identifiers for images and publications. The following are
the configurations related to PID:

- `PID_ENABLE`: Set to `true` to enable PID support. Default is `false`.
- `PID_SECURE`: Whether to use HTTPS for PID. Default is `true`.
- `PID_IMAGE_BASE`: The base PID for images. E.g. `w3id.org/iaw/images`.
- `PID_PUBLICATION_BASE`: The base PID for publications. E.g. `w3id.org/iaw/publications`.

### Generating the encryption key

Laravel requires an encryption key from the `.env` file. To generate the key, use the following artisan command and it
will populate the `APP_KEY` variable in the `.env` file.

```shell
php artisan key:generate
```

### Migrating the database

Once the database configurations are configured in the `.env`, the structure and default data should be created in the
database by running the artisan command:

```shell
php artisan migrate --seed
```
